6-InitProcess/README.md, before:

# Init Process

The **init process** is the first process that is started by the kernel during the boot process. The init process has a process ID (PID) of 1 and is responsible for starting and managing all other processes on the system.

```bash
# To show the process tree
pstree -gn 
```

In the following execices we will boot every time from NFS server, make sure to put all the folders for the root file system in

`/etc/exports`

then run `sudo exportfs -r` to update the nfs protocol with new folder added.

## Create the APP

1. Create a **simple application** just to see it running in initialization.

2. Compile the App with **specific compiler for the board**

   You can see the Folder **InitApp** in the Repo.

## BusyBox Init

The **busybox init** process then reads the system configuration files and starts various system services, such as network interfaces, device drivers, and daemons, to bring the system to a functional state.

### Create Rootfs

Using buildroot Or Busybox we set the configuration in filesystem to be **busybox init**

then we edit the **bootargs** in uboot to boot on the busybox init filesystem

```bash
setenv bootargs_busybox "setenv bootargs console=ttyS0,115200 root=/dev/nfs ip=192.168.7.100:::::eth0 nfsroot=192.168.7.1:/home/fady/rfs_bb,nfsvers=3,tcp rw init=/sbin/init"
```

then define bootcmd variable for busybox init

```bash
setenv bootcmd_busybox 'run bootargs_busybox; tftp 0x80200000 zImage; tftp 0x82000000 am335x-boneblack.dtb; bootz 0x80200000 - 0x82000000'
```

### Add the application

We need to add the application into the init script so it run at startup.

We need to modify two script:

- `/etc/init.d/rcS1`

  ```bash
  echo "rsc1 is on"
  deamonapp &
  ```

- `/etc/init.d/rcK1`

  ```bash
  echo "shutdown deamon app"
  pkill -e deamonapp
  sleep 3
  ```

- Adding the script in inittab

  ```bash
  # Excute when the system start
  ::sysinit:/etc/init.d/rcS1
  
  # Excute when the system will go down
  ::shutdown:/etc/init.d/rcK1
  ```


## SystemV init

in SystemV we have to do some additional setup because runlevel is introduce here

### Setup

`/etc/init.d/deamonapp`

```sh
#! /bin/sh
case "$1" in
      start)
           echo "Starting deamonapp........."
           start-stop-daemon -S -n deamonapp -a /bin/deamonapp &
           ;;
     stop)
           echo "Stopping deamonapp........."
           start-stop-daemon -K -n deamonapp
           ;;
     *)
           echo "Usage: $0 {start|stop}"
           exit 1
esac
exit 0
```

### Usage of the app

- Ask for Help

```sh
/etc/init.d/deamonapp --help
```

- stop service

```sh
/etc/init.d/deamonapp stop
```

- start service

```sh
/etc/init.d/deamonapp start
```

- Then add this script to one of the `/etc/rc<x>.d/` folders to specify on what run level we will start the application

  ```sh
  # from file system root we create a symbolic link to our application and place it in one of the rc<runlevel> folders(runlevel)
  ln -s ../init.d/deamonapp ./etc/rc5.d/S40deamonapp.sh
  # this simplic link file is named `S40`, S -> will call our script with `start` as argument, `40` order of execution
  ```

- To kill the application at when getting in specific runlevel we create similar symbolic link

  ```sh
  # Kill the process in runlevel 5
  ln -s ../init.d/deamonapp ./etc/rc5.d/K40deamonapp.sh
  # Kill the process in runlevel 4
  ln -s ../init.d/deamonapp ./etc/rc4.d/K40deamonapp.sh
  ```

  to kill the application we execute
  
  ```sh
  telinit 4 # switching to runlevel 4 will kill the application
  ```

Commit message:

edit kernel and init process

6-InitProcess/README.md, after:

# Init Process

The **init process** is the first process that is started by the kernel during the boot process. The init process has a process ID (PID) of 1 and is responsible for starting and managing all other processes on the system.

```bash
# To show the process tree
pstree -gn 
```

In the following execices we will boot every time from NFS server, make sure to put all the folders for the root file system in

`/etc/exports`

then run `sudo exportfs -r` to update the nfs protocol with new folder added.

## Create the APP

1. Create a **simple application** just to see it running in initialization.

2. Compile the App with **specific compiler for the board**

   You can see the Folder **InitApp** in the Repo.

## BusyBox Init

The **busybox init** process then reads the system configuration files and starts various system services, such as network interfaces, device drivers, and daemons, to bring the system to a functional state.

### Create Rootfs

Using buildroot Or Busybox we set the configuration in filesystem to be **busybox init**

then we edit the **bootargs** in uboot to boot on the busybox init filesystem

```bash
setenv bootargs_busybox "setenv bootargs console=ttyS0,115200 root=/dev/nfs ip=192.168.7.100:::::eth0 nfsroot=192.168.7.1:/home/fady/rfs_bb,nfsvers=3,tcp rw init=/sbin/init"
```

then define bootcmd variable for busybox init

```bash
setenv bootcmd_busybox 'run bootargs_busybox; tftp 0x80200000 zImage; tftp 0x82000000 am335x-boneblack.dtb; bootz 0x80200000 - 0x82000000'
```

### Add the application

We need to add the application into the init script so it run at startup.

We need to modify two script:

- `/etc/init.d/rcS1`

  ```bash
  echo "rsc1 is on"
  deamonapp &
  ```

- `/etc/init.d/rcK1`

  ```bash
  echo "shutdown deamon app"
  pkill -e deamonapp
  sleep 3
  ```

- Adding the script in inittab

  ```bash
  # mount proc and sys file system
  null::sysinit:/bin/mount -t proc proc /proc
  null::sysinit:/bin/mount -t sysfs sysfs /sys
  
  # Excute when the system start
  ::sysinit:/etc/init.d/rcS1
  
  # ask to enter to the shell
  console::adkfirst:-/bin/sh
  
  # Excute when the system will go down
  ::shutdown:/etc/init.d/rcK1
  ```


## SystemV init

The **BusyBox init** daemon just described is just a trimmed down version of System V init. Compared to the BusyBox init, System V init has two advantages:

- The boot scripts are written in a well-known formal make it easier to add more packages or bin to run at boot time. 
- It has the concept of runlevels.

### Setup

`/etc/init.d/deamonapp`

take in count that **deamonapp** is a script inside the init.d

```sh
#! /bin/sh
case "$1" in
      start)
           echo "Starting deamonapp........."
           start-stop-daemon -S -n deamonapp -a /bin/deamonapp &
           ;;
     stop)
           echo "Stopping deamonapp........."
           start-stop-daemon -K -n deamonapp
           ;;
     *)
           echo "Usage: $0 {start|stop}"
           exit 1
esac
exit 0
```

### Usage of the app

- Ask for Help

```sh
/etc/init.d/deamonapp --help
```

- stop service

```sh
/etc/init.d/deamonapp stop
```

- start service

```sh
/etc/init.d/deamonapp start
```

- Then add this script to one of the `/etc/rc<x>.d/` folders to specify on what run level we will start the application

  ```sh
  # from file system root we create a symbolic link to our application and place it in one of the rc<runlevel> folders(runlevel)
  ln -s ../init.d/deamonapp ./etc/rc5.d/S40deamonapp.sh
  # this simplic link file is named `S40`, S -> will call our script with `start` as argument, `40` order of execution
  ```

- To kill the application at when getting in specific runlevel we create similar symbolic link

  ```sh
  # Kill the process in runlevel 5
  ln -s ../init.d/deamonapp ./etc/rc5.d/K40deamonapp.sh
  # Kill the process in runlevel 4
  ln -s ../init.d/deamonapp ./etc/rc4.d/K40deamonapp.sh
  ```

  to kill the application we execute
  
  ```sh
  telinit 4 # switching to runlevel 4 will kill the application
  ```
