8-Yocto/README.md, before:

# Yocto

Yocto Project provides a flexible toolset and a development environment that allows embedded device developers across the world to collaborate through shared technologies, software stacks, configurations, and best practices used to create these tailored Linux images.

## Setting Host Environment

Need to download the following essential tool to build yocto project

```bash
sudo apt-get install gawk wget git-core diffstat unzip texinfo gcc-multilib \
build-essential chrpath socat libsdl1.2-dev xterm
```

## Download Yocto Project

1.  Create a directory called `yocto` and change directory to it.

```bash
mkdir yocto && cd yocto
```

2. Clone Poky reference and change directory to poky and checkout to stable release by poky dunfell branch

```bash
# Clone the repo
git clone -b dunfell git://git.yoctoproject.org/poky.git

# Change directory
cd poky
```

## Configuration Poky

We need to source the oe-init-build-env to set the environment for poky

```bash
source oe-init-build-env [Give folder name to be created]
```

Edit the tune of the parallelism of bitbake generator for fast execution and generation of project.

```bash
# change directory to conf
cd conf

# edit the file local.conf
vim local.com
```

Then we need to add the two line in the file

```bash
##### Please replace number of cores with your host cores and multiply it by the number next to it #####
BB_NUMBER_THREADS ?= "1.5 * Number of cores"
PARALLEL_MAKE ?= "-j 2 * Number of cores"

#### EXAMPLE #####
## my machine has 4 cores ##
BB_NUMBER_THREADS ?= "6"
PARALLEL_MAKE ?= "8"

## NUMBER OF CORES MUST BE PAIR ##
```

### Qemu build

Poky the default setting is to build qemu so we only need to run bitbake

```bash
# bitbake [options] [recipename/target ...]
bitbake core-image-minimal
```

### Raspberry Pi

We need to download the meta layer for raspberry pi

Check the following link for other meta layer required [OpenEmbedded Link](https://layers.openembedded.org/layerindex/branch/master/layers/)

Any meta data downloaded make sure to check out to **Dunfell branch**

```bash
# getting meta-raspberrypi
git clone git://git.yoctoproject.org/meta-raspberrypi
git checkout dunfell
```

We can also download of the layer that has many feature

```bash
git clone git://git.openembedded.org/meta-openembedded
git checkout dunfell
```

We need to add the layer in **bblayer.conf**

```bash
# POKY_BBLAYERS_CONF_VERSION is increased each time build/conf/bblayers.conf
# changes incompatibly
POKY_BBLAYERS_CONF_VERSION = "2"

BBPATH = "${TOPDIR}"
BBFILES ?= ""

BBLAYERS ?= " \
  /home/ahmed/Documents/linux_amit/Embedded_linux/Linux-yocto-Excersises/yocto/building_Raspberrypi_image/poky/meta \
  /home/ahmed/Documents/linux_amit/Embedded_linux/Linux-yocto-Excersises/yocto/building_Raspberrypi_image/poky/meta-poky \
  /home/ahmed/Documents/linux_amit/Embedded_linux/Linux-yocto-Excersises/yocto/building_Raspberrypi_image/poky/meta-yocto-bsp \
  /home/ahmed/Documents/linux_amit/Embedded_linux/Linux-yocto-Excersises/yocto/building_Raspberrypi_image/meta-raspberrypi \
  "
```

Change the machine in **local.conf** to the require raspberry pi chosen

```bash
...
# This sets the default machine to be qemux86-64 if no other machine is selected:
#MACHINE ??= "qemux86-64"
MACHINE = "raspberrypi<x>"
BB_NUMBER_THREADS = "6"
PARALLEL_MAKE = "-j 8"
...

```

**Build the image**

```bash
# bitbake [options] [recipename/target ...]
bitbake core-image-minimal
```

### BeagleBone

Poky has the metadata bsp data layer for beaglebone we only need to change the support machine variable in **local.conf**

```bash
# Comment the following line in local.conf
#MACHINE ??= "qemux86"
# Uncomment the following line
MACHINE = "beaglebone"
```

Now we need to add the required layer for beaglebone

```bash
# clone meta ti for beaglebone
git clone git://git.yoctoproject.org/meta-ti
```

We include the layer in **bblayer.conf**

```bash
# POKY_BBLAYERS_CONF_VERSION is increased each time build/conf/bblayers.conf
# changes incompatibly
POKY_BBLAYERS_CONF_VERSION = "2"

BBPATH = "${TOPDIR}"
BBFILES ?= ""

BBLAYERS ?= " \
  /home/ahmed/yocto-training/yocto/layers/poky/meta \
  /home/ahmed/yocto-training/yocto/layers/poky/meta-poky \
  /home/ahmed/yocto-training/yocto/layers/poky/meta-yocto-bsp \
  /home/ahmed/yocto-training/yocto/layers/meta-ti \
```

## Yocto Build SD Card

Add in **local.conf**

```bash
IMAGE_FSTYPES +="[vendor]-sdimg"
```

Commit message:

adding yocto examples and modified in buildroot

8-Yocto/README.md, after:

# Yocto

Yocto Project provides a flexible toolset and a development environment that allows embedded device developers across the world to collaborate through shared technologies, software stacks, configurations, and best practices used to create these tailored Linux images.

To understand the outcome provided by the Yocto Project is set of instruction to give an output:

Input: Set of data that describes what we want, that is our specification 
	*(Kernel Configuration, Hardware Name, Packages/Binaries to be installed)*

Output: Linux Based Embedded Product 
		*(Linux Kernel, Root File System, Bootloader, Device Tree, Toolchain)*

## Setting up Build Machine

1. 50 Gb of free disk
2. Runs a supported linux distribution (example: Ubuntu, Fedora...)
3. 	Git 1.8.3.1 or greater
   	
   	tar 1.27 or greater
   	
   	Python 3.4.0 or greater.

## Setting Host Environment

Need to download the following essential tool to build yocto project

```bash
sudo apt-get install gawk wget git-core diffstat unzip texinfo gcc-multilib \
build-essential chrpath socat cpio python python3 python3-pip python3-pexpect \
xz-utils debianutils iputils-ping python3-git python3-jinja2 libegl1-mesa libsdl1.2-dev \
pylint3 xterm
```

## Download Yocto Project

1.  Create a directory called `yocto` and change directory to it.

```bash
mkdir yocto && cd yocto
```

2. Clone Poky reference and change directory to poky and checkout to stable release by poky dunfell branch

```bash
# Clone the repo
git clone -b dunfell git://git.yoctoproject.org/poky.git

# Change directory
cd poky
```

## Configuration Poky

We need to source the oe-init-build-env to set the environment for poky

```bash
source oe-init-build-env [Give folder name to be created]
```

Edit the tune of the parallelism of bitbake generator for fast execution and generation of project.

```bash
# change directory to conf
cd conf

# edit the file local.conf
vim local.com
```

Then we need to add the two line in the file

```bash
##### Please replace number of cores with your host cores and multiply it by the number next to it #####
BB_NUMBER_THREADS ?= "1.5 * Number of cores"
PARALLEL_MAKE ?= "-j 2 * Number of cores"

#### EXAMPLE #####
## my machine has 4 cores ##
BB_NUMBER_THREADS ?= "6"
PARALLEL_MAKE ?= "8"

## NUMBER OF CORES MUST BE PAIR ##
```

### Qemu build

Poky the default setting is to build qemu so we only need to run bitbake

```bash
# bitbake [options] [recipename/target ...]
bitbake core-image-minimal
```

### Raspberry Pi

We need to download the meta layer for raspberry pi

Check the following link for other meta layer required [OpenEmbedded Link](https://layers.openembedded.org/layerindex/branch/master/layers/)

Any meta data downloaded make sure to check out to **Dunfell branch**

```bash
# getting meta-raspberrypi
git clone git://git.yoctoproject.org/meta-raspberrypi
git checkout dunfell
```

We can also download of the layer that has many feature

```bash
git clone git://git.openembedded.org/meta-openembedded
git checkout dunfell
```

We need to add the layer in **bblayer.conf**

```bash
# POKY_BBLAYERS_CONF_VERSION is increased each time build/conf/bblayers.conf
# changes incompatibly
POKY_BBLAYERS_CONF_VERSION = "2"

BBPATH = "${TOPDIR}"
BBFILES ?= ""

BBLAYERS ?= " \
  /home/ahmed/Documents/linux_amit/Embedded_linux/Linux-yocto-Excersises/yocto/building_Raspberrypi_image/poky/meta \
  /home/ahmed/Documents/linux_amit/Embedded_linux/Linux-yocto-Excersises/yocto/building_Raspberrypi_image/poky/meta-poky \
  /home/ahmed/Documents/linux_amit/Embedded_linux/Linux-yocto-Excersises/yocto/building_Raspberrypi_image/poky/meta-yocto-bsp \
  /home/ahmed/Documents/linux_amit/Embedded_linux/Linux-yocto-Excersises/yocto/building_Raspberrypi_image/meta-raspberrypi \
  "
```

Change the machine in **local.conf** to the require raspberry pi chosen

```bash
...
# This sets the default machine to be qemux86-64 if no other machine is selected:
#MACHINE ??= "qemux86-64"
MACHINE = "raspberrypi<x>"
BB_NUMBER_THREADS = "6"
PARALLEL_MAKE = "-j 8"
...

```

**Build the image**

```bash
# bitbake [options] [recipename/target ...]
bitbake core-image-minimal
```

### BeagleBone

Poky has the metadata bsp data layer for beaglebone we only need to change the support machine variable in **local.conf**

```bash
# Comment the following line in local.conf
#MACHINE ??= "qemux86"
# Uncomment the following line
MACHINE = "beaglebone"
```

Now we need to add the required layer for beaglebone

```bash
# clone meta ti for beaglebone
git clone git://git.yoctoproject.org/meta-ti
```

We include the layer in **bblayer.conf**

```bash
# POKY_BBLAYERS_CONF_VERSION is increased each time build/conf/bblayers.conf
# changes incompatibly
POKY_BBLAYERS_CONF_VERSION = "2"

BBPATH = "${TOPDIR}"
BBFILES ?= ""

BBLAYERS ?= " \
  /home/ahmed/yocto-training/yocto/layers/poky/meta \
  /home/ahmed/yocto-training/yocto/layers/poky/meta-poky \
  /home/ahmed/yocto-training/yocto/layers/poky/meta-yocto-bsp \
  /home/ahmed/yocto-training/yocto/layers/meta-ti \
```

## Yocto Build SD Card

Add in **local.conf**

```bash
IMAGE_FSTYPES +="[vendor]-sdimg"
```
